{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-023-37353-0",
        "timestamp": "2016-08-01 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "To validate the developed smart system, a case study on a construction project is worked out. Several aspects are demonstrated including, (1) project contract is studied for transformation, (2) payments are simulated in the Ethereum blockchain, (3) geometry is represented in a BIM model that is linked to the status of project progress, and (4) the status of payments for each of the framework\u2019s scenarios. The presented case study is for a construction project in Cairo, Egypt. The scope of the work is executing the civil works for a hospital with a built-up area of 7000\u00a0m\n2\n. The project parties are the employer, the design consultant, the main contractor, and the supervision consultant hereinafter referred to as the Engineer. The project budget is 400 million Egyptian Pounds, and the project duration is 18\u00a0months. The standard form of contract used is FIDIC Red Book, 5th edition. The study period of the project is from August 1st, 2016, to March 1st, 2018. The data collected in this study are the employer contractor\u2019s contract, drawings, and schedule. The case study contract is visualized and transformed.\nContract visualization and transformation\nAs an example, sub-clause 14.7 of monthly statements are transformed. After the project commences, the Contractor shall prepare monthly statements of the amounts he considers himself to be entitled. This step is to spark the interim payment certification and payment process. Figure\u00a0\n7\n shows the process started by the Contractor, preceded by submitting the Guarantee and the Performance Security to the Employer, then the Engineer issues his certificate to the Employer within 28\u00a0days of receiving the Contractor\u2019s statement. The Engineer has the right to withhold his certificate if the Contractor fails to perform his obligations, and rectify, or replace part of the works. Or even not issue his certificate if the amount invoiced by the contractor is less than the minimum amount stated in the Appendix to Tender. Once the amount is certified, the Employer shall pay the Contractor within 56\u00a0days after Contractor\u2019s statement is received.\nFigure 7\nSequence diagram for FIDIC sub-clause 14.7 monthly statements.\nPayments and associated transactions\nTo adopt the framework in real construction projects, different issues will arise, such as the readiness for shifting from the traditional finance of a project to Blockchain as a new system for payments. The automatic issuance of invoices based on the determined value of executed works by the engineer is another issue. The currency of payment and terms of payment in the construction contract need further amendments to match the potential of a smart construction contract. For these reasons, 3 scenarios are studied for framework adoption. Invoicing as a means of payments in the construction industry is to be disrupted and changed to a more resilient form.\nTo illustrate the mentioned scenarios, the schedules of payments for each scenario are presented. The amounts of monthly invoices are transferred from the employer to the contractor after the engineer\u2019s certification. Payments are issued on the Ethereum blockchain.\nBase Scenario and Scenario 1\nThe base Scenario is the traditional payment scheme of construction projects, starting from monthly statements by the contractor, then the statements are evaluated and certified by the engineer to be finally paid by the employer. Scenario 1 is the same as Base Scenario, except that Scenario 1 uses ETH cryptocurrency for payments. The data of payments are extracted based on the time schedule updates of value earned throughout the project\u2019s execution. As shown in Table \n2\n, the first invoice is submitted in August 2016, and eventually paid in October 2016 as per the contract\u2019s terms. 2\u00a0months are essential for studying the invoice by the engineer and issuing the payment by the employer. These scenarios propose no changes to any of the terms of the contract or project circumstances except for the project\u2019s currency of payment which is changed from EGP to ETH for Base Scenario and Scenario 1 respectively. The use of the Ethereum blockchain leads to a reduction in cost and time consumed by banks to issue payments.\nTable 2 The schedule of invoices and payments in the different Scenarios.\nScenario 2\nScenario 2 tends to reduce the period of issuing payments from 2 to 1\u00a0month. The rationale behind this proposition is that project parties are aware of their financial arrangements as per the FIDIC contract clause 2.5. This assumption is used to fund the employer\u2019s account with the first payment before commencing the project. Some practitioners may perceive this procedure as not accepted because it limits the employer. However, according to the FIDIC contract, it is a right for the contractor to be aware of the employer\u2019s financial arrangements before commencing the project. Further, the concept of PBA calls for depositing the payments two months in advance. The two months are provided for in the FIDIC red book as the first month is consumed by the engineer to study the invoice and issue the certificate to the employer, and the second month is used by the employer to issue the payment. With clause 2.5 and PBA assumptions in mind, there is no need for the second month to pay the contractor. Table \n2\n shows the analysis of different scenarios.\nScenario 3\nLastly, Scenario 3 assumes payments to be issued on an activity completion basis. That is when an activity is fully or partially completed as per the engineer\u2019s decision, it is approved, certified, and payment is issued instantly. With the use of advanced technologies like computer vision and IoT, this solution could be more applicable.\nResults and discussion\nThe three proposed scenarios are analyzed through two approaches to figure out the effect of automated payments. Each scenario is analyzed with and without the presence of an advance payment. Finally, the case of real-time payment is analyzed to elaborate its potential to the construction industry payment practices.\nApproach 1: no advance payment\nThis approach assumes no advance payment is provided for in the project contract. As shown in Fig.\u00a0\n8\n, Scenario 1, an overdraft value of EGP 35,000,000 is recorded on December 1st, 2017. This overdraft value is the worst among all the scenarios as this scenario assumes that payments are released two months after the issuance of the monthly statements, in addition to no advance payments. The cash flow can be enhanced by reducing the payment\u2019s timeframe from two to one month as shown in Fig.\u00a0\n8\n, Scenario 2. In this case, the overdraft value is reduced from EGP 35,000,000 on December 1st, 2017, to EGP 26,760,000 on March 1st, 2017. This proposition leads to 24% savings in overdraft value, hence reducing the burden on the contractor\u2019s side with no advance payments from the employer. The 30\u00a0days required by the engineer as per the contract are maintained, however, the employer is asked to pay the contractor upon the issuance of the engineer\u2019s certificate.\nFigure 8\nNet cashflow with no advance payment using cryptocurrency-based payment scheme.\nAnother alternative is approaching the way of accepting the works and paying the contractor in no time after the issuance of monthly statements. It adds more savings to the contractor\u2019s cash flow by reducing the overdraft value to EGP 17,000,000 on December 1st, 2017, as in Fig.\u00a0\n8\n, Scenario 3. These 51% savings relieve a big portion of the financial risk of insolvency away from the contractor\u2019s side. However, it adds a burden to the engineer who is responsible for inspecting and approving the works as fast as possible. Although the role of the engineer is now more amplified, the other roles of quantity take-off from drawings, studying bills, vouchers, receipts, etc. are carried out by the proposed framework.\nApproach 2: advance payment\nFigure\u00a0\n9\n shows the project\u2019s cash flow after receiving an advance payment of EGP 29,164,000 on August 1st, 2016, as per the contract, the project\u2019s cash flow for Scenario 1 is way more enhanced with a maximum negative value of EGP 5,740,000 on December 1st, 2017. This 84% saving in the overdraft value is incomparable to the contractor taking the previously mentioned alternatives with no advance payment into consideration.\nFigure 9\nNet cashflow with advance payment using cryptocurrency-based payment scheme.\nWith the augmentation of reducing the payment timeframe from two to one month with the advance payment, no negative value appears in the project\u2019s study period. This means that the contractor is not using his equity when executing the project. As depicted in Fig.\u00a0\n9\n, Scenario 2 shows the effect of payment on certification on the project\u2019s cash flow, with no overdraft value. By adding an advance payment to the above-mentioned Scenario 3, the proposed cash flow is more flattened and no negative values are experienced as shown in Fig.\u00a0\n9\n.\nReal-time payment\nThis section analyzes the payments to be issued on an activity completion basis. That is when an activity is completed as per the engineer\u2019s decision, it is approved, certified, and payment is issued instantly. With the use of advanced technologies like computer vision and IoT, this solution could be more applicable. The potential for this solution does not only lie in the instant payments and saved cash flow, but it is also about the agility in dealing with each activity in real time. To deal with the quality, cost, and any circumstance that may lead to any delays to the activity completion. Figure\u00a0\n10\n shows the effect of this approach on the project\u2019s cash flow with no advance payment and with a maximum overdraft of EGP 9,130,000 in the project study period.\nFigure 10\nReal-time payments with no advance payment.\nThe roles of the engineers working in this area of expertise may see some differences as it is not the way often followed. However, the differences are expected to be the ability to work with the new technology along with their daily tasks. It is about how they perceive the quality of the activity executed and the percentage of completion, then update the framework with the work status. A smart contract is to issue or withhold the payment to the contractor. More engineering work, but nearly no paperwork.\nCommunication between project parties\nWhatsApp\n application is used for communication between parties. Figure\u00a0\n11\n shows an example of correspondence regarding the status of payment to the subcontractor. The message includes the amount paid, the transaction hash, and the reference number on the Ethereum blockchain.\nFigure 11\nReal-time notifications of payments to subcontractors.\nThe bottom line\nThe research presented a background of the construction industry payment-related issues. It elaborated on some efforts exerted to solve these issues like Project Bank Accounts (PBAs). Then the research reviewed modern technologies that showed potential for solving some of the construction industry\u2019s problems. Among the technologies reviewed were BIM, smart contracts, and blockchain technologies. These technologies have been adopted by different industries and demonstrated high benefits and sustained different businesses across these industries. Construction industry also has been on the way to adopting these technologies after they proved efficient and disruptive to different sectors and industries. The research continued to explore the most famous application of blockchain and smart contracts\u2019 technologies, cryptocurrency. Finally, the research discovered the opportunity for integrating these technologies to develop a smarter construction contract based on the automation of its payment processes.\nNotwithstanding the mentioned efforts of researchers in transforming the construction payment scheme to a smarter one, there is a gap in transforming the contract clauses into smart contracts. Nanayakkara et al.\n31\n concluded that solutions based on blockchain and smart contract can significantly mitigate the issues of poor payment practices. Others like Sigalov et al.\n32\n have indicated that smart contracts are of much value regarding the automation of payments in the construction industry, they further theoretically affirmed the ability of smart contracts and BIM to automate the delivery phase of a project, in addition to automating the issuance of payments by linking the BIM model with the project\u2019s contract. And finally, Li et al.\n15\n introduced the use of smart contracts for automating the issuance of payment for a limited installation activity by coupling BIM requirements with smart contracts. The research contribution is the transformation of contract clauses to smart contracts. For the purposes of this research, the said transformation is limited to automation of project payments. This partial transformation of contract conditions is believed to be suitable in the meantime as reported by Mason, et al.\n26\n, who thought that semi-automation of contract conditions could be the solution in the meantime.\u201d"
    }
}