{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0020025523009076",
        "timestamp": "2023-10-09 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "Security and privacy protection technologies in securing blockchain applicationsAbstract\nAs a key technology for building trust networks and implementing value interconnections, blockchain has received extensive attention. There are numerous technical use cases for blockchains in a variety of areas, such as digital currency systems, Internet of Things (IoT), smart grids, supply blockchain and finance. However, the widespread application of blockchain also encounters many security and privacy issues. This article presents an overview and analysis of privacy protection, security supervision and data exchange in blockchain-based applications, providing a comprehensive analysis of the wide application of blockchain. Moreover, blockchain's future research directions and development trends are discussed.\n\nIntroduction\nA centralized management mechanism suffers from a single point of failure problem. When the centralized node is destroyed, the system crashes. Decentralized blockchains can solve this problem without the need for a trusted third party. Blockchains are considered to be a breakthrough in secure computing that does not require central authorization [29]. Generally, a blockchain is a distributed database that packs changing transactions into blocks, where a blockchain structure is formed between the blocks. From a security point of view, blockchains run on a peer-to-peer (P2P) overlay network, utilizing consensus mechanisms and cryptographic algorithms to ensure their security [14].\n\nWith the widespread popularity of digital cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, blockchains have attracted widespread attention from governments, regulators, financial institutions, technology companies, etc. [31]. Blockchains are considered a promising solution to the problems of secure storage, sharing and analysis of data, trusted network control and resource management. Thus, blockchains have deeply penetrated people's daily lives and work through cryptocurrency, digital finance, supply chains, smart cities and the Internet of Things (IoT) [39].\n\nWith the introduction of smart contracts, blockchains were endowed with programmable features. Therefore, the application field for blockchains is becoming increasingly extensive, which is conducive for the interconnection of value. However, due to the immature technologies and the imperfect management of blockchains, they face many problems. In terms of security, there are still many attacks against blockchain consensus mechanisms, smart contracts, data content, etc., such as 51% attacks, smart contract vulnerabilities and denial of service attacks [4]. Moreover, a set of formal regulatory rules and mechanisms have not yet been formed for illegal data on blockchains. In terms of privacy protection, blockchains need to disclose the transaction information for an entire network to allow the nodes in the network to reach a consensus, which creates a risk of privacy leakage.\n\nZubaydi, Varga, and Moln\u00e1r [50] investigated and analyzed related research of blockchains combined with IoT. They mainly discuss the security and privacy problems that exist in a combination of blockchain and IoT. First, they introduce basic blockchain and IoT concepts, principles and architectures and then compare the related literature from the perspectives of application scenarios and technology selection. Finally, prospects for the combination of blockchain and IoT to address security and privacy issues are discussed. Mohanta et al. [30] analyzed the technical implementation of blockchains in different application fields from an academic perspective. It also discusses the progress of the application of blockchains in different fields by different organizations and expounded upon blockchain's security and privacy problems. However, most existing articles only focus on one aspect of blockchain privacy or security, and there are few papers that can cover security supervision, privacy protection and data exchange. Thus, this paper aims to classify and analyze the security, privacy and regulation attributes of blockchain and discuss the security solutions to implement these attributes.\n\nIn blockchain applications, security and privacy have always been research focus areas. Existing works on blockchain security and privacy are compared in Table 1. Li et al. [27] studied the security threats faced by blockchains and analyzed the corresponding attacks and security enhancement possibilities. Villarreal et al. [38] conducted a systematic literature review to investigate the potential of blockchain technology in enhancing the interoperability and security of health care systems. Moreover, they proposed a high-level architecture and validated its feasibility through an experimental approach, utilizing a model-driven engineering methodology for smart contracts. The study's outcomes offer valuable insights into the challenges and opportunities of applying blockchain in health care systems, highlighting the need for a balanced approach to the security and interoperability concerns in designing blockchain-based solutions. Focusing on the security supervision problems existing in blockchains, Wang et al. [41] conducted a systematic overview and explained the security supervision problems. At the same time, the challenges of supervision and possible future research directions were proposed. Joshi, Han and Wang [21] found that some current blockchain studies mainly focus on applying blockchain to various applications, while a comprehensive investigation on the application prospects and technology of blockchain has not yet been completed. As a result, they provided a comprehensive analysis of blockchain from the security and privacy perspective and discussed the challenges and opportunities for different consensus algorithms.\n\nIn terms of blockchain privacy protection, Bernabe et al. [1] investigated the current status of blockchain privacy protection technologies and analyzed the common privacy protection mechanisms and blockchain platforms. Additionally, they analyzed the main blockchain application scenarios for privacy technologies in e-government, e-health, smart cities, etc. Kolb et al. [22] elaborated upon the blockchain working mechanisms and principles. The main challenges faced by current blockchains were analyzed, and the research and technology to solve these challenges were summarized. By classifying the basic blockchain theories and mechanisms, Huang et al. [17] conducted a comprehensive investigation and analysis of the latest research results, providing a guide to the development of the blockchain frontier for theories, modeling and tools.\n\nIn specific application scenarios, Ma et al. [28] conducted research on security, privacy, trust and other technologies in crowdsourcing services and summarized blockchain's existing advantages and challenges. Li et al. [26] provided an overview of the existing works of blockchain technologies in computer network applications and identified the blockchain challenges and solutions in data-driven network applications. Shi et al. [36] analyzed and compared the security and privacy of electronic health record systems based on blockchains and discussed the future development direction of electronic health records.\n\nThe research contributions of this article are as follows.\n\n\u2022 This paper presents basic blockchain knowledge, including blockchain's classification and consensus mechanisms.\n\n\u2022 This paper conducts a comprehensive review and analysis of blockchain in terms of privacy protection, security supervision and data exchange. It also summarizes the existing solutions and the remaining deficiencies. Through a comparative analysis of the literature, the current situation is made more intuitive, which is helpful for us to explore blockchain's future development direction.\n\n\u2022 Finally, some directions and problems to be solved in future research on blockchain are proposed. This contributes to better research and application of blockchain.\n\nThe structure of this article is shown in Fig. 1 and is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the preliminaries of blockchain. In sections 3, 4, and 5, blockchain security supervision, privacy protection and data exchange are analyzed, respectively. Section 6 presents a discussion and future works. Finally, Section 7 concludes the article.\n\nAccess through your organization\nCheck access to the full text by signing in through your organization.\n\nSection snippets\nBlockchain classification\nBased on the difference in the read and write permissions and the management permissions of data, blockchains can be divided into public blockchains, consortium blockchains and private blockchains, which is also the most common classification method. The features of the public blockchain, consortium blockchain and private blockchain are introduced in detail below.\n\nPublic blockchain: Public blockchains, also known as permissionless blockchains, do not contain a centralized authority. The\n\nSecurity supervision\nBlockchain is an innovative technology that integrates research results in many fields, such as computer science, mathematics and economics. It has the potential to provide transformative opportunities for many industries, such as finance, government affairs, property rights and supply chains. Blockchain has become a hot topic of social concern. However, the difficulty of blockchain supervision often leads to the occurrence of security incidents, resulting in fewer practical applications of\n\nPrivacy protection\nWith the development of blockchains, the privacy issues have become increasingly obvious. Because of the decentralized and open characteristics of blockchains, they not only create advantages but also create data and privacy leakage problems. In the financial field, if an attacker obtains specific transaction data, he or she can analyze the data and speculate on the user's transaction rules to conduct illegal activities. At the same time, the attacker can also analyze the macrofinancial trends, \n\nData exchange\nCentralized data exchange platforms do not provide sufficient trust and cannot meet complex requirements. Therefore, blockchain has been used to implement data exchanges. However, there are also many security and privacy issues in blockchain-based data exchanges. For example, during a data exchange, the privacy of the user's identity and transaction data may be leaked, invalidated or illegal data may be uploaded, the exchange efficiency may be low during data transmission, and it is difficult\n\nDiscussion and future works\nThrough the analysis of a large amount of blockchain security supervision, privacy protection, data exchange and other literature, this paper summarizes the current problems and technical blockchain challenges. In terms of security supervision, on the one hand, it is necessary to formulate relevant regulatory systems from the perspective of laws, regulations and policies; on the other hand, it is necessary to strengthen the research on blockchain regulation. At present, the supervision of\n\nConclusions\nAs distributed ledgers, blockchains are decentralized, tamper-resistant, open and transparent, and they are accelerating the application pace in finance, medical care, manufacturing and other industries. However, there are still many problems and challenges in the theory and application of blockchains as a whole. This paper discussed the latest progress in blockchain supervision, privacy and other challenges in recent years, and systematically elaborated and analyzed the technologies involved.\n\nCRediT authorship contribution statement\nBaodong Wen: Conceptualization, Writing - original draft. Yujue Wang: Methodology, Supervision, Writing - review & editing. Yong Ding: Funding acquisition, Methodology, Project administration, Supervision. Haibin Zheng: Methodology, Writing - review & editing. Bo Qin: Methodology, Writing - review & editing. Changsong Yang: Methodology, Writing - review & editing.\n\nDeclaration of Competing Interest\nThe authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.\n\nAcknowledgements\nThis article is supported in part by the National Key R&D Program of China under project 2020YFB1006003, the Guangxi Natural Science Foundation under grant 2019GXNSFGA245004, the National Natural Science Foundation of China under projects 62162017, 62172119, U21A20467, 61972019, and 72192801, Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. LZ23F020012, Beijing Natural Science Foundation under grant Z220001, the Guangdong Key R&D Program under project 2020B0101090002, the \n\n"
    }
}