{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://coinmarketcap.com/academy/article/how-to-detect-a-crypto-rug-pull",
        "timestamp": "2022-04-07 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "How to Detect a Crypto Rug PullRug pullsare a thorn in the side of risk-taking investors eager to get in early on the hottest projects before they go big. This type of scam is proliferating these days due to the deafening hype arounddecentralized finance (DeFi),non-fungible tokens (NFTs),Web3, variousmetaversesand the promise of riches.\nThis is exacerbated by the crypto industry\u2019s lack of regulation, sometimes misplaced faith inanonymousteams and the general demographic of crypto users, which consists mostly of millennials and Gen Zs with excess funds, little fundamental understanding of crypto and often lacking real drive or incentive to learn the technical intricacies of blockchain technology. This is not a description of every crypto investor, but it does describe many of them!\nCipherTrace hasreportedthat DeFi hacks reached a whopping $361 million from January to July 2021, nearly a three-fold increase from 2020 data (and accounting for nearly 77% of all crypto-related hacks).\nHowever,a rug pull doesn\u2019t require a bad actor to hack a protocol or anything. In fact, they simply need to pull the proverbial rug from under investors that they\u2019ve lured in with promises of lucrative returns and disappear with their funds quickly.\nIf you want to dabble in crypto, especially DeFi, it is extremely important that you learn how to spot a rug pull, because once your funds are stolen, it\u2019s almost impossible to recover them. And unlike somecentralized exchanges, mostDeFi platforms do not offer insurance for losses.\nSubscribeHow Does a Rug Pull Work?\nA rug pull isprimarily a specific type of DeFiexit scamwhere malicious project teams \"pull out\" the liquidity of their tokens and disappear with investors\u2019 money.A rug pull may also refer to exit scams in other blockchain sectors, like NFTs. In these cases, project founders disappear sometime after investors mint their NFTs.\nIn a rug pull, the scammers first generate a token and create some hype around it through marketing tactics, mostly via Twitter and Telegram. They then list it on adecentralized exchange (DEX)likeUniSwaporPancakeSwap, usually paired with another popular token likeETHorBNB. At this stage, they are likely toinject substantialliquidityinto their pool and ramp up marketing efforts in order to attract significant exit liquidity from buyers.\nThis is the time when unsuspecting investors buy their tokens in hopes of making crazy gains. Once the scammers are satisfied with the number of tokens bought, they will drain the pool\u2019s liquidity (usually ETH, BNB orSOL) and leave only their worthless scam tokens. In many cases, investors will also be incentivized to deposit liquidity into the token\u2019s pool, which requires buying the token pair.\nThis is generally how a rug pull is executed in DeFi, albeit with a few variations and extra steps.\nFor example, let\u2019s say you bought the hypothetical RUG token from UniSwap. Instead of just holding on to your RUG, you want to take advantage of their 1,000% APY by becoming a liquidity provider for the RUG-ETH pool. You then buy an equal amount of ETH, pair it with your RUG, and deposit them both in the pool to earnyield. When the rug is pulled, you lose not only your ETH, but also the ETH you used to buy RUG, which will be rendered worthless.\nNFT Rug Pulls\nIn the non-fungible token (NFT) space, it\u2019s even harder to determine a potential rug since several projects likeBored Ape Yacht Clubhave launched with pseudonymous founders, yet turned out to be successful. However, careful due diligence can still go a long way to prevent being hoodwinked.\nHow to Catch a Rug Pull\nLiquidity Has No Time Lock\nAtime lockon a token pool\u2019s liquidity is the most surefire way for teams to build public trust in their project, as it eliminates the possibility of them making away with investor funds. Note that most of the liquidity needs to be locked(preferably 95-100%)with a long time horizon. Unfortunately, determining whether liquidity is locked may be too technical for the average crypto joe.\nYour best bet is to ask the developer team in the Discord or Telegram group toprovide proof of locked liquidity.If they can do so, then that\u2019s a good sign - but don\u2019t take anything at face value. If you know someone who has relevantDeFidevelopment experience, ask them to help you verify if a project\u2019s liquidity is locked.\nAnonymous or Fake Founders\nAnonymity gives malicious developers a shield that protects them from accountability, which provides a lot of opportunities to pull off a rug. While Bitcoin\u2019s founder may have been anonymous,Satoshinever asked anyone to buy Bitcoin, only to mine it. In DeFi, projects ask you to put your hard-earned money in their hands, which makes it extremely important that their real identities are attached to the project.\nYou need to check the founders\u2019social media accountsto determine whether their identities are verified and that their records are not fabricated. Some teams are clever in hiding their anonymity by creating fake LinkedIn or Twitter profiles, which requires you to determine how solid and reliable their information is. If they have little to no interactions relative to their followers/connections, that\u2019s already a bad sign. Moreover, if their follower count is extremely low, then that could also be a red flag.\nAnonymous founders are even more prevalent in theNFT space, where they can raise several million dollars worth of crypto with nothing but a picture of an ape (or other animals) and a haphazard Discord group setup. In this case, you\u2019re either going to have to take a bigger gamble or use other metrics to spot a potential rug pull.\nUnrealistic Projected Returns on Investment\nIf something is too good to be true, chances are it is. Scam DeFi projects more often than not claim to offer high rewards, ranging from 500% to 5,000% APY, since they need high liquidity to run their operation.Your common sense will come in handy in determining ROI figures that are unsustainable.\nUnaudited Projects\nA genuine crypto project must have its smart contracts audited by an independent security firm, preferably before they list their token or allow investors to gain exposure. Other projects may deviously postpone the auditing process, but put it somewhere in the roadmap to give investors unwarranted confidence. An unaudited smart contract could hide bugs that allow the founders, or someone else, to steal user funds through a backdoor.\nFurthermore, investors should check the audit report themselves. Some projects just indicate that they\u2019ve been audited, which can delude investors. For all you know, an audit report might reveal the con artist\u2019s planned exit route if you look closely.\nUnfortunately, smart contract auditing is expensive enough that many projects, including legitimate ones, can\u2019t afford it. In such a case, you can alternatively check independent auditing websites likeToken SnifferorRugDocthat may have made their own free audit of the project available.\nLack of Effort or Innovation\nScam projects are not built to last; hence, founders don\u2019t put a lot of effort into them. The most obvious sign is a low-quality website. In fact, some of them may only put up a \"launching soon\" page. This also applies to scam whitepapers, which are usually ambiguous, highlight several buzz words like DeFi, blockchain, metaverse orGameFi, as well as copy-paste descriptions from other projects. If a protocol\u2019s whitepaper or docs page doesn\u2019t make sense, you should rethink its legitimacy.\nMoreover, if a project is merely a clone of another or doesn\u2019t bring anything new or innovative to the space, that\u2019s a red flag. At best, you\u2019re putting your hard-earned money into a low-quality project. At worst, you\u2019re going to get exit scammed.\n\nFunds Concentrated Among Handful of Holders\nIf large amounts of tokens are in the hands of a few holders, chances are that they are team wallets disguised as regular holders. This allows them to easily manipulate the price at the expense of innocent investors. Note that developers don\u2019t need to completely drain a pool\u2019s funds to perform a successful rug pull.\nFor example, if a couple of hands control 60% of the supply, they could easily sell them in one sitting and crash the token price.\n\nTo avoid this, you need to check the coin\u2019s blockchain explorer on Etherscan or BSCscan to find its token distribution. As a rule of thumb, a non-team wallet should not hold more than 5% of the token supply unless locked.\nStealth Mints\nA stealth mint is when an NFT project flies under the radar until the mint is launched, which makes it so much easier to create FOMO in a short period. While it has some advantages, too many malicious developers have used it as an avenue for rugging. To be safe, avoid projects that use this approach.\nConclusion\nNow that we have shed light on the steps needed to avoid falling prey to crypto scams, it is important to note these don't totally guarantee the safety of your funds. As the technology evolves, there will always be surprises, with hackers uncovering newer and more sophisticated ways to steal crypto funds.\n\nMoreover, these measures aren\u2019t as effective in isolation. For instance, if you are able to verify that the team wallets are locked, but fail to identify that more than half of the token supply is in the hands of an unlocked external wallet, they can still rug you. The same is true with haphazard background checks. You need to do your due diligence religiously or not invest at all."
    }
}