{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://nordlayer.com/blog/web3-security/",
        "timestamp": "2024-04-09 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "Web3 security: risks and best practices for staying safeWeb3 stands out as a new wave of innovation, offering a future where users have more control over their data and online interactions. However, this potential also brings new challenges, especially in security. Let's carefully look into the security risks of Web3, giving you the information you need to move forward in this exciting yet risky area safely.\n\nKey takeaways\nWeb3 marks the start of a decentralized internet, focusing on better privacy, security, and control over data for users.\n\nCompanies like IBM, Walmart, and Visa are embracing Web3. They're navigating through complex tech and changes in how things are done but find value in the stronger security and smoother operations it offers.\n\nThe security setup of Web3 relies on spreading out data, using secure codes, and self-executing contracts to protect against common online threats.\n\nDespite its advantages, Web3 isn't free from security challenges such as issues in contract code or scams aiming to steal information.\n\nMoving to Web3 in a way that works well means putting together a solid plan for staying safe, keeping up with new information, and using the right tech.What is Web3?\nWeb3 represents the internet's new era, embracing decentralization and blockchain technology. This approach contrasts with Web2's centralized model, where big tech firms hold the reins. This shift aims to give people back control over their data, prioritizing their privacy and security, which were major concerns in the previous internet phase.\n\nThanks to a growing interest in cryptocurrencies, decentralized apps, and smart contracts, Web3 is expanding quickly. Its core values include transparency, the empowerment of users, and a secure, unchangeable record of transactions. The goal is to build an internet that values fairness and centers around its users.\n\nThe transformative impact of Web3 on businesses\nWeb3 offers businesses enhanced security by distributing data across decentralized networks. Many companies, big and small, are exploring it. IBM, a technology giant, uses blockchain to streamline operations and increase data integrity. Walmart, a retail powerhouse, employs blockchain technology to build supply chain transparency and consumer trust. Visa, a global payments leader, settles transactions in cryptocurrency, exploring decentralized finance's potential. Nike, a sportswear innovator, ventured into digital assets by acquiring a digital sneakers studio and tapped into new markets. Starbucks, a coffeehouse chain, introduces a blockchain loyalty program offering customers transparency in their coffee journey. Maersk, the world's largest shipping company, improves global trade efficiency with its blockchain solution, TradeLens.Despite these benefits, businesses face challenges like technological complexity and regulatory uncertainty. Adapting to Web3 requires shifts in corporate culture toward decentralization. \n\nWeb3's cybersecurity backbone\nWeb3 cybersecurity includes features that make the digital world safer and more trustworthy. Let's go through them one by one, explaining what each is and how it boosts security.Decentralization spreads data across many nodes, which reduces the risk of big data breaches and eliminates single points of failure. This setup makes it harder for attackers to compromise the entire system.\n\nCryptography involves complex algorithms to secure data and transactions. It ensures that information is only accessible to those who are supposed to see it, keeping data confidential and integral.\n\nImmutable ledger is a record that no one can change once something is added. This transparency prevents tampering and builds trust among users, as everyone can see the transaction history.\n\nSmart contracts automatically execute transactions when conditions are met. This reduces the chance of errors and fraud since no human intervention is needed once the contract is set.\n\nIdentity and access management (IAM) controls who gets access to what information. It verifies the identity of users and restricts access to sensitive data, ensuring that only authorized persons can see it.\n\nThe Zero Trust model follows the principle of never trusting anyone by default, even if they are inside the system. It always requires verification, which minimizes unauthorized access.\n\nTokenization turns rights to an asset into a digital token. This secures ownership and exchange of assets by encrypting the details and storing them on the blockchain.\n\nPrivacy-enhancing technologies let people complete transactions without exposing personal information. Techniques like zk-SNARKs allow for transaction privacy, providing security without sacrificing confidentiality. Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds an extra layer of security by requiring a second verification, reducing the risk of unauthorized access.\n\nPermissioned blockchain allows organizations to manage who can join their network. This control over access makes private transactions more secure.\n\nTogether, these features build a safer Web3 environment, where data is protected and trust is a cornerstone."
    }
}