{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/ronin/",
        "timestamp": "2022-03-01 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "Ronin is battle tested and scalable. In 2021 the Ronin processed 15% of all NFT trading volume and is the home of all Axie Infinity assets - Axies, Land, SLP and AXS. Ronin is second only to Ethereum when it comes to NFT sales by volume. While there are many other chains available, Ronin is the only platform proven to scale a single game to accommodate millions of daily users.\nRonin is hyper optimized for gaming and cuts out the bloat found in other permissionless blockchains.  We put in effort to curate high quality apps and ensure there is minimal spam and high uptime for games.\nRonin is environmentally friendly compared to other chains. For comparison, one Bitcoin transaction uses as much energy as 695,505,316.31 Ronin transactions.\nRonin is backed by Sky Mavis, the creators of the #1 NFT project by adoption and all-time volume, Axie Infinity. Sky Mavis\u2019 experience building and scaling Axie Infinity has given them unique insights into product development, community building, and go-to-market which can be leveraged by partners deploying on the network. Sky Mavis offers advisory support and grants to help reduce risk and improve odds of success for games looking to launch.\nRonin is secure. Due to Ronin\u2019s massive traction and being pioneers in the space, Sky Mavis has been one of the first companies to face scaling roadblocks and security threats ahead of the rest of the market. In March 2022, Sky Mavis experienced The Ronin Validator Breach, where 173,600 ETH and 25.5M USDC were drained from the Ronin bridge. This breach was not due to a technical flaw, but a socially engineered attack by an elite group of hackers. This incident led Sky Mavis to become a fully antifragile, zero-trust organization.  Sky Mavis has implemented rigorous internal security measures to prevent future attacks. All code has been fully reviewed and optimized, with security experts auditing the entire architecture. Audit information and security upgrade details can be found here."
    }
}