{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/layered-architecture-of-blockchain-ecosystem/",
        "timestamp": "2022-11-26 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "Layered Architecture of Blockchain Ecosystem\nLast Updated : 26 Nov, 2022\nGenerative Summary\nNow you can generate the summary of any article of your choice.\nGot it\nBlockchain has been hailed as the most revolutionary in the past ten years. Most likely to be impacted are the financial markets. Healthcare, pharmaceuticals, insurance, smart properties, automobiles, and even governments are just a few of the industries that are incorporating technology. However, Bitcoin - A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System, which is also the initial application of blockchain technology, is the implementation of the technology that has been most successful so far. So, it makes sense that the easiest way to grasp blockchain technology is to first comprehend how the Bitcoin System was created and put into use. \n\nAn ever-expanding digital list of data entries is what a blockchain is, to put it simply. This type of list is made up of numerous data blocks that are linked together and secured using cryptographic proofs in the order that they are stored. The article focuses on discussing the layered architecture of the blockchain ecosystem.\n\nThe following topics will be discussed here:\n\nWhat Is Blockchain?\nComponents of Blockchain Technology\nDifferent Layers of Blockchain.\nTypes of Blockchain Layers Based on Professionals. \nWhat Are Layer 2 Solutions?\nEthereum Blockchain Laye\nWhat Is The Blockchain Security Layer?\nLayer 1 vs Layer 2 Blockchain.\nBest Layer 1 Crypto\nBest Layer 2 Crypto\nBest Layer 3 Crypto\nBest Layer 4 Crypto\nLet\u2019s start discussing each of these topics in detail.\n\nWhat is Blockchain?\nAn ever-expanding digital list of data records is what a blockchain is. This type of list is made up of numerous data blocks that are linked together and secured using cryptographic proofs in the order that they are stored.\n\nA blockchain is a particular type of distributed ledger technology (DLT) that comprises a growing list of data, known as blocks, that are securely connected to one another using encryption. A cryptographic hash of the block before it, transaction data, and a timestamp are all included in every block (generally represented as a Merkle tree, where data nodes are represented by leaves). The timestamp proves that the transactional information existed at block creation. Because each block contains information about the blocks before it, they link to one another and effectively form a chain (see linked list data structure). As a result, blockchain transactions are irreversible once they are recorded because doing so would require undoing all blocks that came after it.\n\nOne of the most cutting-edge technologies of the twenty-first century, blockchain technology is changing a wide range of industries, including banking, healthcare, supply chains, education, and other fields.\nSince it was introduced in the early 1990s when its popularity started to rise, a number of applications have surfaced, almost conclusively demonstrating the kind of impact that blockchain is likely to have as the race for digital economies quickly advances.\nIn the 1990s, S. Haber and W. Scott Stornetta\u2019s pioneering work on a cryptographically secure blockchain with unaltered document timestamps led to the creation of the Blockchain.\n\nComponents of Blockchain Technology\nThe main components of any blockchain ecosystem are given below:\n\nNode Application: Every internet-connected computer is allowed to participate if it so chooses, according to a node application. The applications for bitcoin wallets and blockchain are two examples of node applications. In the case of a bank chain as a Blockchain ecosystem, for instance, only banks are permitted to participate. Node applications are not free from restrictions.\nDistributed/Shared Ledger (Database): A particular blockchain system\u2019s participants can access shared databases and contents through the distributed ledger. The shared ledger contains a list of the regulations that must be adhered to. For instance, if we are operating a bitcoin node application, we must abide by all regulations listed in the program code of the bitcoin node application.\nConsensus Algorithm: Consensus algorithms are one of the main parts of a blockchain system and are essential to the functionality and security of the network. Blockchain data is secure and reliably consistent thanks to the consensus algorithm. It displays the network\u2019s current state and illustrates how the network\u2019s nodes decide which transactions to accept. Additionally, the fact that changing a block only requires creating a new block from its predecessor and necessitates regenerating all succeeding blocks and redoing their contents helps to protect the blockchain from being tampered with. For instance, while it only takes ripple a few seconds to ensure ledger agreement, bitcoin can take several minutes.\nVirtual Machine: The term \"virtual machine\" refers to a computer program\u2019s depiction of a machine, real or hypothetical, that may be controlled via instructions expressed in a language. Inside a machine, it is an abstraction of a machine. The abstraction of physical objects and entities into virtual counterparts on a computer is something to which we have grown somewhat used. Put yourself in the position of a button on a graphical application\u2019s user interface. The program\u2019s state inside the computer changes when you press the button on the screen. A different illustration could be the way a government computer displays your driver\u2019s license.\nPeer-to-Peer (P2P) Network: A peer-to-peer is a decentralized model to communicate between many peer nodes without any central server. On blockchain networks, each node flexibly participates in the role of a client and a server to jointly provide and control data. Improving the availability of data helps the system to avoid information loss.\nDifferent Layers of Blockchain\nIn the domain of blockchain technology, an ecosystem is a collection of components that work together to produce a unique environment. Blockchain-based ecosystems have a collection of distributed nodes where immutable transactions are repeated. The blockchain (or digital ledger) technology is built upon a layered architecture as shown in the below figure. \n\nDifferent Layers of Blockchain\n \n\nAccording to some blockchain professionals, there are five layers of blockchain technology:\n\nHardware/Infrastructure layer.\nData layer.\nNetwork layer.  \nConsensus layer.\nApplication and Presentation layer.\nSome blockchain experts believe that blockchain has 7 layers:\n\nHardware/Infrastructure layer.\nData layer.\nNetwork layer.  \nConsensus layer.\nIncentive layer.\nContract layer.\nApplication and Presentation layer.\nThe 7 Blockchain layers are explained below:\n\n1. Hardware or Infrastructure Layer\nHardware or infrastructure makes up the Blockchain\u2019s top layer. On a server housed in a data center, the content for the Blockchain is hosted.\nClient-server architecture, as used in web browsing and other applications, refers to the process where clients request data or content from application servers.\nBlockchain technology typically uses a Peer-to-Peer (P2P) network of computers to calculate, validate, and record transactions in an ordered format in a shared ledger.\nA distributed database is the end result, and it keeps track of all the data, transactions, and other pertinent information.\nNodes are the computers that make up a peer-to-peer network. The Blockchain network\u2019s nodes are responsible for verifying transactions, grouping them into blocks, broadcasting them to the network, and so forth.\nIn the event that all parties agree, the nodes update their local copies of the ledger and commit the block to the Blockchain network. A device is referred to and utilized as a node after it connects to a blockchain network.\n2. Data Layer\nThe linked list used to represent a blockchain\u2019s data structures has two main components: pointers and a linked list of blocks that arrange the transactions.\nA linked list is a collection of chained blocks where each block is filled with data and pointers to the block before it. Pointers are variables that refer to the location of other variables.\nA Merkle tree is a binary tree of hashes that holds the hash of the Merkle root along with other information including the hash of the previous block, the date, the nonce, the block version number, and the current difficulty goal.\nBlockchain technology is secured, has integrity, and is irrefutable due to a Merkle tree.\nA hash tree, also known as a Merkle tree, is a tree in which each leaf node is labeled with the cryptographic hash of a data block and each non-leaf node is labeled with the labels of all of its child nodes.\nIn order to guarantee the security and integrity of the data stored there, transactions are digitally signed on the blockchain.\nAnybody with the public key can validate the signer of a transaction that has been signed using a private key.\nBecause the encrypted data is also signed, the digital signature ensures data integrity and verifies information tampering.\nData encryption prevents the detection of the information. The sender\u2019s or owner\u2019s identity is also protected by a digital signature.\nThe structure of a block on a blockchain is determined by the data layer.\n3. Network Layer\nThe network layer is also known as the peer-to-peer (P2P) layer. In addition to being known as the propagation layer, it is in charge of inter-node communication.\nTransactions, block propagation, and discovery are handled by the network layer.\nThe network layer makes sure that nodes are able to communicate, synchronize, and propagate with one another in order to keep the blockchain network\u2019s present state valid.\nPeer-to-peer networks are types of computer networks where nodes are dispersed and share workloads in order to accomplish a common purpose. Nodes also carry out blockchain transactions.\nThe terms \"full node\" and \"light node\" refer to two different types of nodes. Ensured by full nodes include mining, consensus rule enforcement, and transaction validation and verification. Light nodes, however, can send transactions and merely store the Blockchain header.\n4. Consensus Layer\nBlockchain platforms cannot function without the consensus layer. Whether using Ethereum, Hyperledger, or another blockchain, the consensus layer is the most important and fundamental layer.\nThe consensus layer is in charge of validating the blocks, putting them in the proper sequence, and making sure everyone is in agreement.\nThe distributed peer-to-peer network\u2019s consensus layer establishes a certain set of agreements between nodes.\nPower remains distributed and decentralized due to the consensus layer.\n5. Incentive Layer\nThis stack\u2019s optional incentive layer is the fourth tier. This layer handles how network nodes are compensated for the effort they put forth to establish consensus in terms of rewards. Depending on the consensus process being used, this layer may or may not be implemented.\n\nThis layer defines the minimum amount of transaction fees needed to perform actions on the blockchain.\nThis determines the variant types of incentives available on the network.\n6. Contract Layer\nThe information in the contracts layer, which is right next to the application layer and specifies how a service will operate and what kind of information will be made accessible, is similar to that in a real-world contract. In essence, there are four types of contracts, which are briefly discussed below:\n\nService contract: The endpoint\u2019s offerings and the protocols to be used in the communication process are described in this contract for the benefit of the client as well as the general public.\nData contract: A data contract lays out the terms of the data that a service will exchange. The data contract must be accepted by the service as well as the client.\nMessage contract: An agreement over a message governs a data contract. Its main function is to customize the SOAP message parameters\u2019 type formatting. The SOAP format is used by WCF for communication purposes, it should be noted. Simple Object Access Protocol is the abbreviation for this.\nPolicy and Binding: There are a few prerequisites that must be met in order to communicate with a service, and these prerequisites are set forth in the policy and legally binding agreements. This contract must be adhered to by the client.\nThe application layer is subdivided into the execution layer and the application layer.\nThe programs that end users utilize to engage with the blockchain network are included in the application layer.\nScripts, APIs, user interfaces, and frameworks made up the application layer, together with smart contracts, chaincode, and decentralized applications (dApps). The blockchain network serves as the back-end system for various applications, which are connected to it through APIs.\nChain code, smart contracts, and underlying rules make up the execution layer, which is a sublayer.\nHowever, the transaction is validated and carried out at the semantic layer before moving from the application layer to the execution layer.\nApplications transmit instructions to the execution layer, which carries out transaction processing and maintains the Blockchain\u2019s deterministic nature.\nTypes of Blockchain Layers Based on Professionals\nBut there are additional categories into which blockchain technology layers can be put:\n\nLayer 0\nLayer 1\nLayer 2\nLayer 3\nTypes of Blockchain Layers Based on Professionals explained below:\n\n1. Layer 0\nLayer-0 serves as a network architecture for the blockchain and is made up of the hardware, protocols, connections, and other elements that make up a blockchain ecosystem. A \"network of blockchains\" might be used to describe this layer.\nIn addition to enabling communication across blockchains, Layer 0 also supports inter-chain operability. In order to tackle future layer scalability issues, it offers a crucial foundation. To encourage involvement and development, Layer 0 frequently uses a native token.\nThe patterns in Layer 0 include Polkadot, Avalanche, Cardano, and Cosmos.\n2. Layer 1\nThe majority of work that keeps a blockchain network\u2019s core functions, such as dispute resolution, consensus, programming languages, protocols, and limitations, is done at Layer 1. The first layer stands in for the blockchain itself.\nScalability issues are frequently caused by the large volume of jobs that this tier must manage. Higher fees and extended processing times result from the increased computational power needed to solve and add blocks to a blockchain as more users join it.\nBy using better consensus techniques like proof-of-stake and the introduction of sharding, the scalability issue is substantially reduced (the division of computing operations into smaller parts). History, though, has demonstrated that they fall short.\nLayer 1 examples include Ethereum, the Binance Smart Chain, Solana, and Bitcoin.\n3. Layer 2\nExtra processing power is needed to increase the productivity of the blockchain. The network becomes congested as a result of the need for additional nodes, though. Although adding nodes is necessary to maintain a blockchain\u2019s decentralized nature, adjusting scalability, decentralization, or throughput will have an impact on the other layer 1 factors.\nBecause of this, layer 1 cannot be made larger without moving all processing to layer 2, a layer that is added on top of layer 1. By allowing the integration of layer 1 solutions from third parties, this is made possible.\nRedesigning Layer-1 and overseeing all transactional validations is a new network called Layer-2. In the blockchain ecosystem, Layer 2 is positioned on top of Layer 1 and communicates with it continuously. The management of new blocks\u2019 addition to the blockchain, however, is the sole responsibility of Layer-1.\nThink of a layer 2 blockchain that has been implemented on the Bitcoin blockchain, such as the Lightning Network.\n4. Layer 3\nThe final layer of the blockchain ecosystem is also the one that can be seen with the naked eye. Participants will eventually communicate with user interfaces on Layer 3 of the protocol. This layer seeks to offer simplicity and ease when working with L1 and L2.\nL3 not only offers user interfaces (UI), but also functions such as intra- and inter-chain operability, such as decentralized exchanges, liquidity provisioning, and staking applications. Blockchain technology can be used in real-world settings thanks to decentralized apps (dApps), a kind of layer 3 interfaces.\nOther examples include Decentralized cryptocurrency exchanges like Uniswap and Pancake Swap, Like Binance and Coinbase, wallet providers, and Compound and Aave-style liquidity management protocols.\nWhat are Layer 2 Solutions?\nLayer 2 (L2) is an additional network or technology that runs on top of an already existing blockchain system. The goal is to overcome the scalability and transaction speed constraints that major blockchain technologies must deal with.\nTypically, this involves shifting some of the transactional load from a blockchain network to an adjacent network, which will conduct the processing and report back to the base layer to finalize the findings. The base layer blockchain is made more scalable and less crowded as a result.\n\nBenefits of a layer 2 solution:\n\nNo structural alterations are required to the main chain.\nIncreased throughput without sacrificing network security at the base layer.\nReduced costs.\nNeed of layer 2 solutions:\n\nAlthough it isn\u2019t the case, a blockchain would ideally be able to handle any number of transactions per second (TPS). By giving the main blockchain some breathing room without having to increase block sizes or implement other changes that would affect the protocol\u2019s ability to be decentralized and have high levels of security, L2 scaling solutions can assist in solving issues like these.\nFor example, thousands of TPS cannot be processed on the Ethereum and Bitcoin blockchains, and as volume increases, fees also increase. Higher throughput is desired because it has the potential to obstruct adoption and long-term growth.\nExample of Layer 2 solutions:\nLightning Network: Bitcoin\n\nIn comparison to centralized payment networks, the Bitcoin blockchain can only handle 3 to 7 TPS, a tiny amount. Because of its small block size and low TPS, Bitcoin promotes a high degree of decentralization by keeping hardware costs down. A global network of nodes must accept, mine, distribute, and validate each Bitcoin transaction.\nAmong Layer 2 options for Bitcoin, the Lightning Network has seen the most adoption. It processes main chain transaction bundles off-chain before transmitting the results back, similar to many other L2 systems. The state channels, which are associated channels that carry out these actions, are what the Lightning Network uses specifically to run. Smart contract capabilities are also added to Bitcoin via Lightning, significantly enhancing the network as a whole.\nEthereum Blockchain Layers\nEthereum blockchain layer includes:\n\nA network of node administrators for network security and verification.\nA collection of producers of blocks.\nThe blockchain itself as well as the data on previous transactions.\nThe network\u2019s system for reaching consensus.\nEthereum has significantly more flexibility and applications to provide than Bitcoin but has a core that is very comparable to it. One of the many uses of Blockchain technology is the exchange of Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies. At this point, Bitcoin is surpassed by Ethereum Blockchain. In addition to enabling bitcoin transactions, Ethereum has other goals as well. Ethereum\u2019s two USPs, smart contracts and decentralized apps (DApps) along with supporting digital currency transactions.\n\nFor funding the platform\u2019s upkeep and all of its applications, Ethereum has its own digital currencies, Ether and Gas, which can be used in place of Bitcoin. Bitcoin is limited to 21,000,000 digital currencies, but Ethereum has no such restriction. This is another significant distinction between the two Blockchain networks.\n\nIn addition to supporting cryptocurrency transactions, the Ethereum Blockchain has a wide range of other uses. Some of these uses include:\n\nSmart Contracts: A group of computer programs and protocols known as \"smart contracts\" in blockchain technology are used to automatically enforce particular contract terms. All of the parties involved are required to follow the codes of smart contracts as the set of regulations. The contract automatically starts the next action decided upon and agreed upon by the developers when one or more of the requirements are satisfied. These contracts are efficient, secure, trustworthy, and autonomous, which are all features of Blockchain technology.\nDApps: Decentralized Applications (DApps) development is another way to use the Ethereum blockchain. Due to the decentralized nature of the platform, companies and developers can create apps that can be accessed from anywhere on the Ethereum network. Open-source DApps reward miners for their work by providing them with a tiny cryptographic token for each transaction. Developers who are using Ethereum to build DApps now have more opportunities thanks to the Microsoft and ConsenSys alliance. Through their relationship, Ethereum Blockchain as a Service has been introduced (EBaaS). With just one click, EBaaS gives developers access to a cloud-based blockchain ecosystem.\nBlockchain Security Layer\nAnother aspect of blockchain security that is highlighted when it is adequately discussed is the difference between public and private blockchain security. Regarding participation rights and data access privileges, blockchain networks may have a variety of effects. Because of this, blockchain networks have two different sorts of labeling. Blockchain networks can be either private or public depending on the permissions for membership. However, whether a blockchain network is permissioned or permissionless is determined by the ways users can access it.\n\nWith the guarantee of participant anonymity, public blockchain networks are accessible to everyone and could allow any user to join. In order to achieve consensus and validate transactions, public blockchain makes use of computers that are connected to the internet.\nFor confirming membership and access privileges, private blockchain networks rely on identity. They also only permit well-known organizations to participate.\nBetter learning opportunities for blockchain security challenges are promoted by an understanding of security issues with various forms of blockchain networks. Making the best choice may be aided by evaluating the blockchain network type that best suits your company\u2019s objectives. Networks that are private and have permission, for instance, might have stricter controls to address compliance and regulatory issues. Contrarily, improved distribution and decentralization may be made possible via public and permissionless networks.\n\nLayer 1 Vs Layer 2\nIt\u2019s crucial to comprehend the differences between the two because blockchain scalability is a fundamental issue for all cryptocurrencies. A blockchain network like Bitcoin\u2019s primary structure is referred to as its first layer, or Layer 1. However, Layer 2 refers to networks that are constructed on top of other blockchains, like Ethereum.\n\nTo put it another way, Layer 1 solutions directly alter the fundamental principles of the blockchain, whereas Layer 2 solutions rely on a parallel network to enable transactions outside of the main chain. The parallel network Polygon, which runs on the Ethereum blockchain, would make a good illustration of a Layer 2 parallel network.\n\nA good illustration of how this idea will improve the effectiveness of blockchains and promote wide adoption is the scalability of Ethereum.\n\nParametersLayer 1Layer 2\nDefinitionLayer 1 scaling solutions are modifications in the base protocol of the blockchain network to achieve improved scalability. Layer 2 scaling solutions involve the use of off-chain services or networks to improve scalability.\nWorkingChanges in the base protocol, such as larger block sizes or new consensus mechanisms, can empower scalability.Sharing the transaction ordering and processing workload with off-chain solutions improves scalability.\nTypes\nConsensus protocol improvements.\nSharding.\nModifications in block size.\nNested Blockchains.\nSidechains.\nState channels.\nBest Layer 1 Crypto\nAvalanche: The list of layers 1 crypto coins is headed by Avalanche (AVAX), which is also a layer 1 coin. It has the quickest time to finality, or the moment when you can be sure that a transaction cannot be reversed. Its novel consensus mechanism is to blame for this. It is also more decentralized than most layer 1 platforms because just the barest minimum hardware is needed to run a node.\nCardano: Through more inclusive, secure, and scientifically based technology standards, Cardano\u2019s long-term research aims to empower those who need it the most. The layer 1 cryptocurrency Cardano (ADA) aims to move control away from unaccountable institutions and toward the individual. Interestingly, Ethereum was co-founded by Charles Hoskinson, the creator of Cardano.\nSolana: One of the fastest layer 1 transaction speeds is found on the high-performance blockchain Solana (SOL), which aims to surpass 50,000 TPS. Decentralized apps with hundreds of millions of users could potentially run at this throughput rate. While Ethereum is more decentralized, it is also safe and scalable.\nPolkadots: The layer one crypto project Polkadot (DOT) is one to be concerned about. Gavin Wood, a fellow Ethereum co-founder, founded it. It creates a network of blockchains using Parachains. In essence, the Polkadot network is used to support a number of blockchain applications that can communicate and exchange data.\nAlgorand: By displacing current financial models, Algorand (ALGO), a cryptocurrency focused on the future of finance, aims to grow the decentralized finance market. They have amassed hundreds of millions of dollars to further develop the ecosystem, and they have already seen a rise in a number of industries.\nCosmos: One layer of cryptography is Cosmos (ATOM). It is a growing network of interconnected services and apps intended for a decentralized future. It\u2019s noteworthy that both Terra and Binance Smart Chain use the Cosmos technology. Cosmos\u2019 scalability and network interoperability have led many networks to choose it as their foundation.\nNEAR Protocol: As the web stack develops, the Near protocol (NEAR), a layer-1 blockchain, aims to provide support. Due to its sharded proof-of-stake architecture, it will compete with Ethereum and Polkadot with its extremely scalable and affordable solution.\nBest Layer 2 Crypto\nPolygon (MATIC): The native token for Polygon, MATIC, is the first choice on our list of the best layer-2 coins. Polygon, formerly known as the Matic Network, is a platform for scalability in the blockchain space that makes it easier to create and link Ethereum-compatible blockchain networks. It refers to itself as the \"Internet of Blockchains\" for Ethereum, collecting scalable solutions for a multi-chain Ethereum ecosystem.\nOMG Network: OMG is the next top layer-2 currency on our ranking list. The currency is the proprietary token for the OMG Network, formerly known as OmiseGo. The first layer-2 layer-3 Ethereum calling solution, according to OMG Network, is production-grade. With faster speeds and cheaper transaction costs, while retaining the highest levels of security, it aims to make it simpler for users to move money and digital assets on the Ethereum blockchain.\nLoopring (LRC): Even though Loopring\u2019s LRC token may not be one of the larger-cap coins, it is currently quite powerful. powers LRC In order to support the development of new crypto-asset exchanges, Loopring is a layer-2 program running on Ethereum. Loopring has made some bold statements, such as the one that its platform will enable exchanges to build on it and avoid problems common to Ethereum-based decentralized exchanges (DEXs), such as slow transaction speeds and high fees.\nBancor (BNT): One of those tokens you don\u2019t hear about every day is BNT. The coin has achieved enough to rank among the best layer-2 coins, though. The native token for Bancor is BNT; this platform encourages users to provide liquidity to DeFi protocols. It aims to make it easier for automated market makers (AMMs) to function, which allows investors to supply liquidity to DeFi markets in exchange for commissions and interest.\nBest Layer 3 Crypto\nHelium: Best wirelessly enabled web 3.0 coin.\nOcean protocol: Best AI, IoT, and big data-based web 3.0 coin.\nFLUX: Best web 3.0 coin for cloud computing.\nChainLink: overall best web 3.0 coin.\nFilecoin: Best web 3.0 coin for the storage system.\nThe Graph: Best web 3.0 coin for blockchain indexing.\nBitTorrent: Best web 3.0 coin for file sharing.\nLivepeer: Best web 3.0 coin for video streaming.\nKadena: Smart contract-based web 3.0 coin.\nPolkadot: Top-rated web 3.0 coin.\nBest Layer 4 Crypto\nCosmos and Polkadot: According to its description, Cosmos is \"a decentralized network of independent parallel blockchains, powered by Byzantine Fault-Tolerance consensus algorithms, ensuring safety for up to a third of Byzantine, or hostile, actors.\" By enabling interoperability across blockchains developed with the use of Cosmos\u2019 open-source tools Tendermint, Cosmos SDK, and IBC, the company hopes to establish an \"Internet of Blockchain.\" Numerous well-known initiatives, including Binance Chain, Crypto.com, Terra, and Polygon, have built blockchains with Cosmos and are interoperable with one another using Cosmos\u2019 ecosystem. $ATOM, the native token of Cosmos, is employed in the administration of the Cosmos Hub, as well as spam prevention and staking (which secures the blockchain).\n\n\nSummer-time is here and so is the time to skill-up! More than 5,000 learners have now completed their journey from basics of DSA to advanced level development programs such as Full-Stack, Backend Development, Data Science. \n\nAnd why go anywhere else when our DSA to Development: Coding Guide will help you master all this in a few months! Apply now to our DSA to Development Program and our counsellors will connect with you for further guidance & support.\n"
    }
}