{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://www.circle.com/en/reports/state-of-the-usdc-economy",
        "timestamp": "2024-06-28 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "State of\nthe USDC EconomyA new internet financial system is emerging. Thanks to the power of USDC, blockchain networks, and some of the world\u2019s best developers and technology companies, the financial system is being upgraded. It is faster, easier, and safer, making money open for all.Over the past decade, the rise of blockchain technology has fueled a convergence of the internet and global finance. This convergence is delivering a software upgrade for the financial system that is nothing short of transformational.\nThis is what inspired Circle\u2019s founding in 2013. Our focus has been infusing the core elements of open internet software into the world of money. Our mission is to use the internet\u2019s openness and scale to raise global economic prosperity through the frictionless exchange of value - building what we believe is an emerging and new internet financial system.\nSoftware is poised to eat the world of finance, just as it evolved many legacy industries a generation ago. By making communications, entertainment, and other business activities faster, cheaper, and easier to access, costs dropped, barriers fell, and innovation flourished. We see the accelerating migration of commerce to the blockchain as the next wave of this decades-long trend of digital transformation, with a social and economic impact potentially larger than that unleashed by the original internet in the 1990s and early 2000s.\nConsider that from 2000-2020, internet usage grew from less than 7% of the world\u2019s population to 60%.1 As blockchain opens up aspects of traditional finance that have long been closed, we anticipate a similar growth trajectory for blockchain-based commerce.In the coming years, we expect millions of businesses and billions of people to begin using this new, open Web3 internet layer to transact trillions of dollars in value.\nOpen money is a big idea, comprising economic, technical, and philosophical principles rooted in the internet\u2019s design of openness and interoperability. By bringing the marginal cost of data dissemination to zero, the web made the sum of human knowledge accessible to all. By making it easy for developers and creators to build, it enabled a rich ecosystem of sites and apps.\nYet the project of the internet remains incomplete, because even though data moves around the world securely, instantly, and for free, the monetary superhighway on the internet is still being paved.\nEverything we do today is focused on building and accelerating this internet financial system.\nAs this report details, it all starts with our efforts to build USDC into the largest, most widely-used stablecoin network in the world. Through USDC, we are empowering almost anyone, anywhere, with the ability to access and use dollars on the internet. And we are turning USDC into an open platform for companies and developers to build a new wave of apps that could rival and reshape today\u2019s dominant internet and financial platforms.\nLast year marked a major turning point for the future of blockchain-based, internet native finance. Bad actors began to bear the full weight of their nefarious activity, frauds were uncovered, yet the underlying technology matured, and mainstream businesses deepened their involvement with technologies like USDC.\nLeading payment companies and merchant settlement firms are now using USDC to solve real-world pain points. Blockchain-based credit markets are using USDC to support real economic activity around the world. Fintechs and neobanks that were born on the internet are turning to USDC as a means of moving dollars at the speed of internet commerce. Remittance companies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are building with USDC to tackle the hard problem of moving value quickly and fairly to people who need it. Traditional banks, capital markets firms, and custodians are supporting USDC as a way to grow their businesses.\nThis momentum is why policymakers globally have made significant progress on issuing rules and guidelines for how to responsibly engage with payment stablecoins and open blockchains. They understand the magnitude of the opportunity and are determined to harness the benefits for their economies and societies. Together, innovators and policymakers are redefining the art of what is possible with money on the internet.\nWhile it is still early, there are unmistakable signs that USDC and the broader ecosystem are poised to reach escape velocity - unleashing the power of open money around the world.\nI hope you enjoy the 2024 edition of State of the USDC Economy. My team and I look forward to discussing the findings with you.\nJeremy Allaire headshot\nSincerely,\nJeremy Allaire\nCo-Founder, Chairman and CEOOpen blockchain networks are powering a new form of money and redefining how people and businesses exchange value globally. These networks represent a new layer of financial technology that leverages the internet to reduce deeply embedded costs and friction, increase speed, and reimagine what is possible when exchanging value, be it sending digital dollars across borders or interacting with tokenized versions of other traditional assets.\nThis possibility impelled Circle\u2019s launch of USDC in 2018. USDC is a payment stablecoin that combines the strength, trust, and network effects of the US dollar with the superpowers of the open internet.\nThe near-term opportunities are significant and are starting to create outsized impact, driven by the dollar\u2019s role at the center of global finance. The dollar comprises more than 90% of trade invoicing in Latin America, 74% in Asia Pacific, and 79% in the rest of the world outside of Europe.3 According to the Federal Reserve, nearly $1 trillion in US bills, including two-thirds of all $100 bills in existence, are held outside the US.4\nThe dollar\u2019s global role means the overwhelming majority of stablecoin activity today is denominated in dollars. USDC makes it possible for nearly anyone, anywhere, to access, hold, and transact digital dollars over the internet. USDC is already available in more than 190 countries and held in nearly 3 million on-chain wallets.5An open platform for money on the internet\nOver the past few years, USDC has experienced exponential growth as a stablecoin network. Since its introduction in 2018, USDC has been used to settle about $12 trillion in blockchain transactions. More people in more countries are experiencing the benefits of unlocking digital dollars on the blockchain. This is spurring developers to build new apps, strengthening the ecosystem of services around USDC, and making it even easier to obtain, send, and store.\nThe growing use cases for blockchain technology recall the adoption curve of cloud computing. Early in its history, the cloud was seen as niche and risky, but now the cloud\u2019s inherent advantages for business are clear. Today, corporations store 60% of their data in the cloud, with 9 in 10 large enterprises adopting a multi-cloud architecture.6 We are on the brink of the next phase in this evolution, as more businesses adopt Web3 on enterprise-grade blockchains. The internet financial system that Circle is helping build does not compete with the cloud; it helps complete it. Indeed, blockchain networks bring trustworthy data, transactions, and computational power to the public internet.\nWe are on the brink of the next phase in this evolution, as more businesses adopt Web3 on enterprise-grade blockchains.\nA dollar API for internet finance\nUSDC is essentially a dollar API on the public internet. It is a well regulated, open-source building block that offers easy integration into other fintech, bank, and digital currency projects to enable nearly-instant, nearly-free transactions denominated in the world\u2019s most widely used currency. This creates tremendous opportunities at a time of rapid evolution in the finance tech stack and the growing ubiquity of APIs.\nBuilt for blockchain interoperability\nUSDC is natively available on 15 blockchain networks. Over time, our plan is to make USDC available wherever developers are active and the right security measures are in place, so that it can easily and safely flow across the blockchain ecosystem.\nAt the same time, we are making the complexities of blockchains fade into the background. The recently launched Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP) helps reduce friction, increase safety and security, and reduce costs when sending USDC from one blockchain to another. In the near future, we aim to enable CCTP support for every blockchain where USDC is native, making it seamless to send dollars across the internet without the present challenges users have moving USDC from one blockchain to another."
    }
}