{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://coingape.com/ethereum-layer2-metis-discord-hacked-warns-users-of-phishing-scams/",
        "timestamp": "2024-07-30 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "Just-In: Ethereum Layer 2 Metis Discord Hacked, Warns Users Of Phishing ScamsEthereum layer 2 network Metis suffered a breach on its Discord with the platform warning the community of potential bad actor activity through airdrop links.Highlights\n\nMetis Discord account was breached by bad actors.\nThe platform warned users against airdrop links.\nSome users lauded the firm for a swift reaction to the incident.\nBlockchain security firms flagged suspicious activity on the Discord account of Ethereum layer 2 network Metis. Users were warned of potential bad actor activities like phishing scams on the account. This adds to the list of phishing and security breaches among web3 companies as users continue to advocate security.\n\nMetis Discord Suffers Breach\nEthereum layer 2 network Metis suffered a breach on its Discord account. This incident was flagged by blockchain security firms and users who noticed suspicious activity. The firm notified users of the incident warning users against interacting with airdrop links to avoid losses. This incident adds to the growing list of web3 compromises this year. Initial reactions from the community were mixed although many hailed them for their swift response. However, some users pointed out that the response was quite delayed because they noticed it a while ago. Despite this, overall sentiments were good as future losses were prevented.\n\nThe number of phishing scams has increased in recent times as crypto adoption grows globally. Bad actors hack popular web3 social media accounts and similar platforms. The scammers proceed to post fake links usually as community airdrops to attract users. Interacting with these links usually results in loss of loss of assets and wider effects.Also Read: Kamala Harris Fires Back At Trump With $50M Election Ad Campaign \n\nCrypto Scams Dampens Sentiments\nCrypto scams have soared in recent times impacting market sentiments. Several aspects including phishing, bridge and platform hacks, and collapses have plunged the general market with long periods in the woods. An example was the FTX implosion and the collapse of Terra\u2019s stablecoin which saw billions of the market wiped off. Digital asset scams also determine the regulatory direction of authorities. Anti-market lawmakers have argued for stronger and bottleneck regulations on crypto firms. Pro-market commentators flag tighter regulations as impeding innovations and driving investment to other jurisdictions. "
    }
}