{
    "threat_intelligence": {
        "url": "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0378437122003600",
        "timestamp": "2022-08-15 00:00:00",
        "original_content": "Ethereum transaction tracking: Inferring evolution of transaction networks via link predictionAbstract\nBlockchain is an emerging technology which has attracted wide attention in recent years. As one of the blockchain applications, cryptocurrency has developed rapidly in recent years, attracting criminals to commit fraud and money laundering. Therefore, to better protect the legitimate interests of users and help formulate an effective supervision, it is necessary to track and follow transaction records on blockchain-based systems. This paper studies the problem of transaction tracking in Ethereum from a network perspective, aiming to study explainable strategies for money flow generation. We first collect the space-intensive transaction data from Ethereum blockchain and model them as temporal weighted multi-digraphs. A variety of tracking strategies considering different transaction factors (i.e., frequency and amount) are proposed, and the corresponding random-walk based link predictions method are designed for evaluation. Our method gets explainable results from the experiments, demonstrating that both transaction frequency and amount influence the generation of new transactions in Ethereum. This means when tracking the money flow among Ethereum accounts, we should pay more attention to those transaction paths having a shorter time interval and a larger amount. From these transaction features, the proposed random-walk based link prediction framework is found to be an effective method for transaction tracking. Furthermore, we show an application of transaction tracking via link prediction effectively enhance the ability to detect the suspicious accounts in Ethereum.\n\nIntroduction\nBlockchain is an open and distributed ledger technology managed by a peer-to-peer network via a consensus mechanism [1], and most blockchain systems inherit the characteristics of being decentralized, open, autonomous, as well as user tamperability and anonymity. As the representative of \"blockchain 1.0\", Bitcoin is the first decentralized peer-to-peer cryptocurrency whose price hit an all-time high of 19,850 USD on December 17, 2017. Launched in 2015, Ethereum is currently the largest open-source blockchain-based platform that supports distributed applications (i.e., smart contracts) [2], and has been widely recognized as the core of \"blockchain 2.0\". The corresponding cryptocurrency, Ether, is the digital asset of the account in Ethereum, and it is also the medium used to pay transaction fees. With its rapid development in the past few years, Ether has become the second largest cryptocurrency and its market capitalization reached around 20 billion USD in 2018. Attention has been paid to the modeling and understanding of the blockchain systems and corresponding cryptocurrencies of Bitcoin, Ethereum [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12].\n\nHowever, as blockchain projects continue to develop and more people invest, blockchain-related crimes have mushroomed. Taking advantage of the anonymity of blockchain, criminals attempt to evade supervision and engage in money laundering, smuggling and other illegal activities. For instance, Bitcoin is reported to be involved in several illegal transactions on the dark web marketplaces, e.g., \"Silk Road\", which hid drug dealings, assassinations and other crimes [13]. Besides, in Ethereum, which supports the functionality of smart contracts, more types of cybercrimes have been reported, such as exploits, hacks, phishing, and Ponzi schemes [14].\n\nThe past few years have witnessed the emergence of various projects and companies concerning transaction tracking on the blockchain, such as Chainalysis (\nwww.chainalysis.com\n), Etherscan (), and CipherTrace (). Transaction tracking plays an important role for regulators, cryptocurrency exchanges, and investors. For regulators, transaction tracking can assist them to detect fraud behaviors and gangs, follow tainted money, get back stolen cryptocurrencies, and improve the regulatory ecosystem. For example, it is reported that Chainalysis helped the FBI identify two agents on corruption charges of stealing bitcoin from an online drug market operator [15]. Moreover, for cryptocurrency exchanges, transaction tracking improves their capabilities of Know Your Transaction (KYT) and anti-money laundering (AML), and thus helps them better understand the market and protects the rights of law-abiding users. Besides, for ordinary users or cryptocurrency service providers, they can employ the results of transaction tracking to keep their money away from polluted funds and suspicious entities.\n\nNetworks are widely adopted as a standard representation of data for understanding interactions between objects in various complex systems [16]. At present, most of the cryptocurrency transaction tracking systems adopt the mechanism combining the network visualization system and manual analysis, such as CoinHolmes (), which is a cryptocurrency AML system of Peckshield (\nhttps://peckshield.com/\n). Intuitively, the huge transaction records of cryptocurrencies can be modeled as a network to facilitate analysis. For example, Ethereum accounts in records can be represented as nodes of the network. Nodes are linked if the corresponding accounts have transactions between them. As transaction relationships have direction and multiple transactions between two accounts are expected, it is more comprehensive to model Ethereum transaction records as a directed multigraph, i.e., multi-digraph, rather than a simple graph. Moreover, each edge represents a transaction weighted by the amount and assigned with a timestamp in the Ethereum transaction network.\n\nIn the world of cryptocurrency, obtaining the key downstream accounts help track the money flow of criminals. However, money launderers often use a large number of addresses to disperse dirty money during the illegal transfer of assets. As the depth of tracking increases, the constructed network becomes more complex and the downstream addresses grow exponentially. This makes it difficult for regulators and exchanges to recognize dirty money and respond in time to emergencies in time. Fig. 1 shows an example of money laundering by a wealth management wallet TokenStore, which has been exposed as a suspected runaway. Since June 10, 2019, the large-value assets of TokenStore have been divided into new addresses several times layer by layer for intensive money laundering. The money flow starts with account 0x068a,1 from June 20, 2019. Accounts with different colors denote different layers of the money laundering procedure. For example, account 0xf64d2 is one of the 1-hop neighbors of account 0x068a, and account 0x47083 is one of the 2-hop neighbors. Nodes attached with \"ZB\", \"Binance\", \"OKEx\", and \"Huobi\" are cryptocurrency exchanges ZB4 Binance,5 OKEx,6 Huobi,7 respectively.\n\nFrom the above example, we can understand that anti-money laundering is a complex financial issue. So far, the academic community has also paid attention to the research issues related to transaction tracking for maintaining financial security and healthy development of blockchain ecosystems. Meiklejohn et al. [17] utilize heuristic clustering to group Bitcoin addresses based on evidence of shared authority, which performs a new perspective for bitcoin de-anonymization and tracking. Yousaf et al. [18] develop techniques to trace cross-ledgers activity by capturing complex transactional behaviors based on data from ShapeShift. Such cross-currency tracing techniques will deter criminals who try to obscure their flow of money. Wu et al. [12] perform the study on the identification of mixing services and tracing illegal transactions in Bitcoin. A systematic analysis with several designed features is conducted to characterize how addresses belonging to mixing services. Wu et al. [19] tackle the transaction tracking task as graph searching the transaction network using Personalized PageRank. They track the fund flow from the source hack addresses with the three kinds of heuristic designs, namely, tracking tendency, weight pollution, and temporal reasoning.\n\nIn this work, we try to study the problem of transaction tracking in Ethereum from a network perspective, and investigate the tracking strategies inspired by a random-walk based link prediction model. Specifically, from a microscopic viewpoint, we propose to trace and predict transactions on this huge transaction network via link prediction, which is a classic problem in network science. Moreover, from a macroscopic viewpoint, we analyze how the frequency of transactions and the amount being transferred would influence the evolution of the transaction network, leading to better design of transaction tracking methods.\n\nThe main contributions of the paper are as follows:\n\n\u2022\nFirst, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first try to study the transaction tracking problem via link prediction on cryptocurrency transaction networks.\n\n\u2022\nSecond, we propose a random-walk based model and get explainable results about the interplay between transaction features and network evolution of the transaction networks. We explore how two important transaction factors in transaction networks, namely, transaction amount and time, impact the evolution of the Ethereum transaction network.\n\n\u2022\nThird, we show an application of the transaction tracking technique by conducting phishing account classification, which further demonstrate link prediction can help supervise and monitor the transactions.\n\n\nSection 2 introduces the related work in the field of blockchain transaction data analysis and network science. Section 3 describes how we collect transaction history from Ethereum, followed by the procedures of data cleaning and preprocessing. In Section 4, we demonstrate the framework for Ethereum transaction tracking, and illustrate how inference can be made on the interplay between transaction information and network evolution via a network-embedding based link prediction model. In Section 5, we further investigate the effectiveness of random-walked based methods. In Section 6, we first collect phishing account transactions, and model the suspicious accounts detection as a binary classification problem, and then use the transaction tracking framework via link prediction to improve the classification performance. We conclude the paper and discuss future directions in Section 7.\n\nAccess through your organization\nCheck access to the full text by signing in through your organization.\n\nSection snippets\nRelated work\nIn this section, we present two categories of related work. The first one is related to the analysis and mining of blockchain transaction records. The second category includes network evolution theories and link prediction algorithms, from which the network evolution mechanism can be inferred.\n\nEthereum transaction records\nIn this section, we introduce the background of Ethereum transaction data, and describe how we collect and model transaction records from Ethereum.\n\nFramework\nThe transaction records are first converted to a temporal weighted multi-digraph. Then, transaction paths are identified by running random walks to obtain co-occurrence statistics. The original graph is mapped into the embedded space by representation learning, which resorts to a dimension reduction method. Finally, by using link prediction methods, we predict the transactions, and infer the impact of transaction features on the evolution of transaction networks by comparing the results derived \n\nTransaction tracking via similarity-based link prediction (RQ2)\nAs explained in Section 4.2, random walk based embedding methods can effectively embed a large sparse network into a low dimension space while preserving the node similarity property. However, comparing with traditional link prediction methods, the effectiveness of our embedding based framework on tracking transactions and network evolution is yet to be verified. Here, to study the competitiveness of our embedding based framework, we conduct experiments of various similarity-based link\n\nApplication of transaction tracking (RQ3)\nAs we have mentioned in Section 1, criminal activities on blockchain have become more frequent and rampant in recent years. According to the Chainalysis 2020 Crypto Crime Report,8 2019 was the biggest year for cryptocurrency scams-Scammers brought in 4.3 billion USD worth of cryptocurrency from millions of victims. Ether has long been known as the cryptocurrency of choice for scams, and the phishing scam is one of the most common types of \n\nConclusion\nIn this paper, we study the transaction tracking problem in Ethereum from a network science perspective and infer on the interplay between transaction features and network evolution. Specifically, we present a biased random-walk based link prediction framework to study transaction tracking. To investigate the impact of transaction frequency and amount on the evolution of transactions, we design a random walk generator with various walking strategies to examine the temporal network embedding"
    }
}